# Air-Quality-Index-and-Air-Pollution-In-Bengaluru

This research is an attempted study to analyze the effect of vehicular pollution and variable weather conditions on the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Bengaluru city. The present environmental conditions in the city demand an initiative to overcome the issue of depleting nature. The vehicular emissions from urban areas have the major share of contribution towards the environmental destruction in the city. The increasing number of vehicles leads to inconsistent values of AQI. The prediction of air quality by measuring AQI is noted as a major tool to identify the present living conditions in the city. The AQI of the study region can be estimated based on seven eminent air pollutants viz., PM10, PM2.5, SO2, NO2, CO, O3, and NH3. The monthly AQI calculation during the research revealed that the quality of air in the city can be classified into various categories ranging from low, moderate, satisfactory to unacceptable and hazardous classes. The air quality results also state that the lower the value of AQI more is the favourability of living in the city. The increasing rate of AQI can outturn into uncertain living circumstances and health concerns for the population in the city. The research discovered that the prominent index range of AQI for the chosen period and region falls under the category of moderate class. This interprets that the favourability of living in the city as an unaffected or minor health concern for the general public. However, the moderate index of AQI can have serious effects on the health of a sensitive and elderly group of the population. The outcomes of the research depicted that it is an essential requirement to conduct periodic testing of vehicular emissions and weather changes to resist the plight of hazardous living conditions in the city.
